Voice communication security 1. Voice communication security Privacy protection, existing solution and emerging technologies for wiretapping and voice encryption Crypto Lab (University of Trento) 24 Aug 2010 Fabio Pietrosanti (naif) Email: [email_address] Blog: http://infosecurity.ch 2. Agenda: Mission impossible in 2 hours? 1 - The need to intercept phone calls 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 3 - The risk of eavesdropping 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 5 – Understanding voice encryption 6 – Mobile TLC industry standards 7 - Government and Military standards 8 - Public Safety standards 9 - IETF VoIP Security standards 10 - Various anti-wiretapping secure phones 11 - Conclusion From this talk you will learn a lot about: voice interception techniques and context Different requirements among voice encryption technologies Major voice encryption standards 3. Who am i Fabio Pietrosanti Works in IT Sec till ’98 Stay in digital underground with nickname “naif” till ’95 Worked as network security manager for I.NET SpA, Security Advisor Corporate Security Telecom Italia Now CTO of KHAMSA ITALIA SPA doing voice encryption stuff http://www.privatewave.com Project and engineer strong encryption products and technologies for VOICE Technology partnership with Philip Zimmermann Participate to underground communities, sikurezza.org, s0ftpj, metro olografix, progetto winston smith, etc 4. Being founder and CTO of a company doing voice encryption this presentation follow my view on encryption and security/wiretapping technologies My personal and professional feeling are about voice crypto are philosophically near to openness, standardization open-source, open and transparent peer review and i hate every closed and proprietary solution This presentation try to be as much as objective as possible 5. 1 The need to intercept phone calls 6. Once upon a time... Communication interception was limited to fixed phone lines Few companies, Telco monopoly, was involved The interception was limited in providing useful information for investigation and intelligence needs The need to intercept phone calls 7. But now... Ubiquitous computing is a reality and mobility is everywhere Plenty of different operators Plenty of different technologies (voip, virtual operators, etc) Cross-border communication services complexity More data can be retrieved (ex: Location data, phone call logs, sms messages, etc,) The need to intercept phone calls 8. An appealing business today Acquiring access to communications today means acquiring *full* access to a person life But who has such need? The need to intercept phone calls 9. Subjects interested in other parties communications Law Enforcement Agencies National Secret Services Foreign Secret services Almost all large corporation in international context Outsourced intelligence service providers Organized crime Military organization in battlefield (those information may require dedicated slides for each subject) The need to intercept phone calls 10. Lawful interception Lawful interception Action (based on the law) performed by a network operator / access provider / service provider (NWO/AP/SvP), of making available certain information and providing that information to a law enforcement monitoring facility for investigation purposes The need to intercept phone calls 11. Unlawful interception Unlawful interception Action (against the law) performed by a government agency / network operator / access provider / service provider (NWO/AP/SvP) / Large enterprise / Intelligence Agency / Intelligence professional / disgruntled employee, of making available certain information and providing that information to an interested third party that provided enough budget to proceed to that information collection The need to intercept phone calls 12. Signal Intelligence Signal Intelligence Military action of espionage and counter espionage performed by military intelligence against foreign forces in the area of battlefield or in a pre-emptive manner near to enemy tactical base. It apply to all kind of communications equipments. The need to intercept phone calls 13. 2 Methods to intercept phone calls (do it by yourself) 14. Tactical Vs. Non-Tactical Interception Tactical interception It directly apply to communication lines Does not involve the telecommunication operator knowledge It can be lawful or unlawful Almost most unlawful interception use Tactical methods 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 15. Interception targets and approach Target Identity Target Devices Target Communication lines Parametric Interception Target a perimeter Target specific content (keyword, language, stress, mix of all of them) 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 16. Practical Approach: Once upon a time... Manual switching cable on Telco offices was an easy to do task. 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 17. Practical Approach: Mobile interception (1) Mobile phones can be intercepted with appropriate equipment (GSM, UMTS) Active Method (Risk of detection) Passive Method (A5 Cracking) Semi-Active Method (100% success) Mobile spyware intelligence UMTS 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 18. Practical Approach: Mobile interception (2) 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls Many approach to crack different GSM crypto algorithms: A5/0 A5/1 A5/2 A5/3 19. Practical Approach: GSM Active IMSI-catcher 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls Create a fake GSM network with powerful antenna and RX/TX power Mobile phones goes to powerful BTS Wiretapping trough man in the middle Patented by Rohde & Schwarz “Virtual base station” Can be easily done with OpenBTS + USRP device Dozen of commercial products for intelligence purpose 20. Practical Approach: GSM A5/1 passive 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls Using rainbowtables to cracking A5/1 encryption Fully passive encryption cracking Based on known plan text of certain GSM messages (SI5, SI6, SI6bis) In theory fixed… but upcoming public attack via SMS! Available via cheap USRP1 + airprobe + kraken or trough professional products http://srlabs.de - http://reflextor.com/a51 21. Practical Approach: GSM Semi Active 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 1) Use a Fake BTS that ask for weak A5/2 2) Mobile phones roam with A5/2, leaking Kc used on A5/1 real BTS 3) Disconnect mobile phone 4) Intercept A5/1 with known Kc Example: Siacorp Semi-Active GSM monitoring System SCL-5020SE Within some months: attacks with OpenBTS + Airprobe 22. Practical Approach: Mobile spyware 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls On device spyware Many commercial trojan for Symbian, Blackberry, iPhone, Android Tap phone calls by conference calling Someone is able to tap silently and send via GPRS 23. Practical Approach: UMTS? 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls Theoretically broken No practical implementation around All phones are Dual-Mode If you can’t crack it, just block it with a Jammer Automatic UMTS -> GSM roaming 24. Practical Approach: GSM towers uplink Uplink of operators between towers are usually not encrypted 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 25. Practical Approach: ISDN/PSTN Interception Simple cable cut give impressive results! Budget? Less than 250 USD for a professional equipment transmitting in VHF 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 26. Practical approach: Fiber Tapping (voip) Less than 300 USD equipment Open the bottle, bypass the fiber, get the whole traffic of area 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 27. Practical approach: DSL copper tapping Tap directly on ADSL copper with Tactical ADSL probe (Trace Span) System integrated one with 3500 EUR 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 28. Practical Approach: Easy ethernet tapping (voip) From 20 to 150 USD budget 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 29. Practical Approach: What about CDR? 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls Call data records give full mapping of a person social network Identify relations strength Analysis of CDR always done before wiretapping Commercial available software such as verint.com X-Tract NSA call database count 1.9 trillion CDRs 30. Everything else is Military SIGINT 2 - Methods to intercept phone calls 31. 3 The risk of eavesdropping (for people safety and democracy) 32. Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? Who will watch the watchman? The most important sentence. Reflect on the impact that eavesdropping have on the democracy 3 - The risk of eavesdropping 33. The human factor: Can we trust all of them together? 3 - The risk of eavesdropping Law Enforcement Employee Telco Employee Outsourced interception services employee Technical support employee of interception products Any party involved in the process... 34. The human factor: Quiz An employee of a Telco, 1800 USD net salary, working on technical structure is asked by an unknown person to wiretap a certain line. Is given 20k USD in advance. What he will do? 3 - The risk of eavesdropping a) Refuse the offer and report to the authority the request. He has an ethic! b) Accept the offer and execute the taping c) Accept and propose also a list price for phone call logs and details on owners of lines 35. The technical factor 3 - The risk of eavesdropping Most interception are done by redirecting and/or copying intercepted traffic to a centralized place Do you think that the diverted traffic is protected? NO! From one place, the LEA office lines, every interception can be intercepted. VoIP multiply the risk factor by moving the intercepted traffic over the internet without protection. 36. The political factor and new freedom risks 3 - The risk of eavesdropping New parametric interception techniques are able to detect certain kind of pattern in ALL voice flows. Language blacklisting, gender detection and blacklisting, keyword matching give too much power in the hands of few persons and there’s no law on how to deal with it. 37. The political factor in unstable countries 3 - The risk of eavesdropping Unstable countries face the issue of cross-agency interception Wiretapping became a strong cause of political instability 38. The need of perfectly enforceable laws on wiretapping Laws and procedures for efficient, controlled and guaranteed wiretapping are required Wiretapping of civil, secret and military agencies has to be regulated and the rules has to be subject to public scrutiny 3 - The risk of eavesdropping 39. The need of perfectly enforceable laws on wiretapping Church Commitee Report (1976) The Committee finds that information has been collected and disseminated in order to serve the purely political interests of an intelligence agency or the administration, and to influence social policy and political action. White House officials have requested and obtained politically useful information from the FBI, including information on the activities of political opponents or critics. The FBI has also used intelligence as a vehicle for covert efforts to influence social policy and political action. USA: Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (1978) NSA Warrantless Wiretapping (2005) New York Times: Bush Lets U.S. Spy on Callers Without Courts “ The White House asked The New York Times not to publish this article” 3 - The risk of eavesdropping 40. 4 Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 41. Global interception: Echelon USA confirmed their global interception program with support of Great Britain and New Zealand European Parlament confirmed that Echelon was used to illegally divert airplanes deals to make US company wins respect to EU company 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 42. 1994 - France: Political spying by Mitterand cause him to loose election 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 43. 1996 - Poland: Plenty of requests by citizens to ombudsman that received illegal transcripts of intercepted phone calls 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 44. 1999 - Turkey: Continuous interception scandals, blackmailing and transcripts of wiretapping Since 1996 in Turkey the political instability has caused a continuous tapping of phone calls of journalists, politicians, military and police representative Almost every year a scandals get out 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 45. 2000 - UK: Incredible increased interception power and revelation of past activities 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 46. 2001 - Finland: Interception scandals, mobile phones intercepted without warrants 3 top official of Finland Security Policy and the head of the security department of Sonera are charged for illegally intercepting user phone calls. The recording has been going for nearly a year without any formal authorization nor request 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 47. 2002 - Netherland: Dutch secret services interception equipment brought from Israel is tapping the interceptors Interception equipment used by Dutch Intelligence agencies was brought from the israel company Verint. That equipment was leaking information on interception to israel. Interception technology is intercepting the interceptor! Another fall into the monitoring systems! 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 48. 2005 - Grece: Interception scandals, a bug has been put in Vodafone ICT infrastructure Costas Tsalikidis has been found dead head of Security of the Mobile Telco was found “suicided” The prime minister, the chief of secret services, a lot of activists has been intercepted No responsability has been found All phone calls were diverted to a bunch of prepaid anonymous SIM cards 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 49. 2006 - Italy: Interception scandals, thousands of persons was profiled, intercepted and someone blackmailed. Adamo Bove, the head of Security of the Mobile Telco TIM was found “suicided” The head of secret services was wiretapped Thousands of people phone logs was acquired A numbers of illegal interception has been done http://www.edri.org/edrigram/number4.15/italy 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 50. 2007 - USA: FBI missed to get authorization for interceptions because of too complicated laws 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 51. 2009 - Colombia: Continue the debate and fight on corrupted officials doing wiretapping paid by drug traffickers 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario 52. Conclusion of real world scenarios The tip of the iceberg. 4 - Real case, Real world, Real risk scenario It’s a serious problem that affect democracy and freedom even of western “democratic” countries It’s a concrete and real problem Only few facts reach the public media 53. 5 Overview of voice encryption systems 54. Communication technologies Traditional telephony (circuit switched) ISDN (fixed) PSTN (fixed) GSM/CDMA/UMTS (mobile) SAT (iridium, turaya, inmarsat, etc) VoIP Telephony (packet switched) Softphone on PC Hardware phones Mobile internet (GPRS, EV-DO, EVDO, etc) Radio transmission HF, UHF, EHF, VLF (air, space, earth, sea) Understanding voice encryption 55. Authorities for standards ISO ITU-T GSM Consortium 3GPP 3GPP2 NSA NATO IETF Telecom Industry Association (US interim standards) Understanding voice encryption 56. Result of complexity in technologies and authorities NO single standard for telephony NO single standard for security (not even enough!) Understanding voice encryption 57. Digital vs. Analog Scrambling Vs. Encryption Analog connection Vs. Digital connection Creating a digital data path over the media And what about the signaling? Outband signaling Inband signaling Best review of scrambling technologies with security evaluation: https://upcommons.upc.edu/pfc/bitstream/2099.1/4858/1/MarkusBrandau.pdf Understanding voice encryption 58. TLC Communication technologies But bear in mind military and public safety requirement: Radio from ELF (3-3000hz) to EHF (30-300ghz) Understanding voice encryption Data Transmission Circuit Switched Packet Switched ISDN, GSM,CDMA,UMTS, PSTN, SAT VoIP Quality of service Granted GPRS / EDGE / UMTS Not Granted Coverage Full Only Urban Area Billing Per-second (sender pay) Per-packet (sender/receiver pay) Signaling Outband In-band (over IP) 59. Different use case and requirements Government (embassies and agencies) and Military (battlefield, earth, air, sea) Public safety Mobile Telecommunication industry IETF standards Misc use anti-wiretapping secure phone Understanding voice encryption 60. Different security model End-to-end Security point-to-point point-to-multipoint End-to-site Mixed setup Understanding voice encryption 61. Security of crypto operation Tamper proof encryption key container (SIM Card) Tamper proof enciphering hardware (NSA / NATO Crypto Card) Embedded hw/sw encryption along with tlc equipment General Trusted operating system General operating system Embedded custom (firmware) operating system False sense of security using old concepts Jtag debugging & reversing are currently diffused Firmware can be broken if not protected with trusted hardware Understanding voice encryption 62. Standards vs Proprietary Moving from a cold-war to multilateral operations bring to standardization and interoperability requirements Proprietary technology Require gateway for interoperability breaking end-to-end security Increase delay High costs Single vendor dependency Standards and open technologies Standards but closed technologies Standards but partially closed technologies Understanding voice encryption 63. NSA Cryptographic Modernization Program Moving from proprietary to standard solution Interoperate with NATO and coalition Replacing 1.3milion encryption units in 10 years Avoid dependency on single vendor Reduce costs Update all equipments to modular crypto systems Not anymore single crypto system but modular upgradable systems Understanding voice encryption 64. The race to standardization Mobile TLC industry: GSM 2G: A5/1 , A5/2, A5/3 GPRS 2.5G: GEA1, GEA2, GEA3 UMTS 3G: UEA1, UEA2 UMA/GAN: IPSEC with IKEv2 / AES LTE 4G: 128-EEA1, 128-EEA2, 128-EEA3 Government and Military: SCIP / FBNDT Public safety: TETRA IETF Standard: SIP/RTP (SRTP -> SDES / ZRTP / DTLS) Secure Phone: Still plenty of various proprietary solution Understanding voice encryption 65. Beware of Snake Oil Crypto Staying careful about snake oil encryption Bruce Schneier and Phil Zimmermann reference Snake Oil Encryption is Secret Algorithm Algorithm without key exchange details Security Expert review and useless certificates Unbreakable Unsubstantiated bit claims Not explaining the security model (end-to-end vs end-to-site) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_oil_(cryptography ) http://www.interhack.net/people/cmcurtin/snake-oil-faq.html Understanding voice encryption 66. Mobile TLC Industry GSMA / 3GPP / LTE 67. Security by lobbying and patenting Mobile TLC industry TLC industry is represented mainly by large corporation Each standard is defined inside defined organization with the direct industry participation Standards are specifically defined in a cryptic and complex document formats Standards in mobile environment are very often plenty of patented methodologies Even if we refer always to “GSM” there are a lot of GSM releases Information is fragmented and the “Algorithm” custodian concept prevent immediate use for research http://gsmworld.com/our-work/programmes-and-initiatives/fraud-and-security/gsm_security_algorithms.htm 68. 2G: GSM encryption Mobile TLC industry Operate at Layer1 Provide one-way mobile to network authentication Provide mobile-to-BTS encryption A wide set of algorithms A5/0 (no encryption) A5/1 (standard encryption) A5/2 (export version, weak) A5/3 (Use of Kasumi in GSM) Given the peculiarity of the overall protocol all GSM communication can be broken, even with an upgrade to A5/3, because interoperability and compatibility has to be kept and most mobile phones cannot be upgraded 69. 2.5G: GPRS/EDGE Encryption Mobile TLC industry Operate at Layer2 (LLC) Does not have any relationship with A5/1 or A5/2 of GSM Algorithm used: GEA0 (no encryption) GEA1 (export controlled) GEA2 (normal strength) GEA3 (GPRS use of Kasumi) 70. 3G: UMTS encryption Mobile TLC industry UMTS use two set of algorithms: UEA1 and UIA1, based on Kasumi UEA2 and UIA2, based on SNOW 3G In UMTS there is a mutual authentication between handset and the network In 2005 it has been demonstrated 1 st an attack (yet not so practical) against KASUMI In 2010 it has been demonstrated the recovery of full key against Kasumi, but still not practical for how it’s used in 3G systems Have a look at http://eprint.iacr.org/2010/013 71. 4G: LTE multiple encryption Mobile TLC industry LTE is a still a work-in-progress protocol It follow a completely different approach respect to 2G and 3G: Supporting a multiple set of conceptually different encryption algorithms to be able to resist against a single attack 128-EEA1 and 128-EIA1 (identical to UMTS UEA2 and UIA2 based on SNOW) 128-EEA2 and 128-EIA2 (based on AES) 128-EEA3 and 128-EIA3 (based on ZUC) Extend USIM key length up to 256-bit Mandatory Backhaul protection (BTS/BSC -> MSC) Mandatory TS 33.401 Security Architecture for LTE 72. UMA / GAN Mobile TLC industry Trough UMA (Unlimited Mobile Access) / GAN (Generic Access Network), roaming between 2G/3G and IP network UMA reuse as-is IETF available standards IPSEC with IKEv2 key exchange 3DES/AES encryption NAT-T IPSEC tunneling EAP-SIM for authentication with SIM EAP-AKA for authentication with USIM 73. Government and Military NATO / NSA 74. Intro Government always used to keep encryption algorithm and protocols secrets Multiple different communication protocol Multiple different security protocols Multiple different cryptographic suites Multiple different key management system Current multilateral context is changing Budget reduction and military cooperation lead to interoperability requirements Government and Military 75. SIGSALY Secure Voice System Circa 1943, SIGSALY provided perfect security for secure voice communication among allies. Twelve units were built and deployed in Washington, London, Algiers, Brisbane , Paris ….. Reference: SCIP, Objective, History and Future Development: Veselin Tselkov Government and Military 76. Sylvania’s ACP-0 (Advanced Computational Processor) Circa 1966, the ACP-0 was the first programmable digital signal processing computer. A 12-bit machine, it was used to program modems, voice and error control coders. One unit was built, leading to the ACP-1, a 16-bit machine. Reference: SCIP, Objective, History and Future Development: Veselin Tselkov Government and Military 77. Sylvania’s PSP (Programmable Signal Processor) Circa 1970, the PSP was Sylvania’s third generation programmable digital signal processing computer. A 16-bit machine. The PSP led to the STU-I. Reference: SCIP, Objective, History and Future Development: Veselin Tselkov Government and Military 78. STU-I Circa 1979, the STU-I used the PSP digital signal processing computer. A few hundred units were eventually deployed. Reference: SCIP, Objective, History and Future Development: Veselin Tselkov Government and Military 79. Original STU-II Circa 1982, the STU-II provided 2400 and 9600 bps secure voice. A few thousand units were eventually deployed. Reference: SCIP, Objective, History and Future Development: Veselin Tselkov Government and Military 80. First interoperability attempt US STU-II was first device set interoperable with NATO NBSV-II devices But in 1985 NSA initiated FSVS (Future Secure Voice System) and created in 1987 STU-III ISDN voice encryption Units Government and Military Selex BRENT BRENT And the story repeat again… broken interoperability with European NATO partners! German TopSec-703 81. But again in the ‘90 STE appeared! A new architecture for secure telecommunication for multi-media communication lines (Radio, ISDN, Satellite) STE works by completely avoiding internal crypto operations with KOV-14 Fortezza Plus Crypto Card Government and Military Since 2004 STE are currently the official voice encryption device of US, with firmware upgrade to support SCIP, VoIP and for a variety of new Crypto Card: KSV-21 – Type 1 TOP Secret USA KSV-40 – NATO TOP Secret SSV-50 – Coalition Partners KSV-30 – CCEB (Australia, New Zealand, UK, US, Canada) 82. Finally standard telephony: FNBDT / SCIP In 1997 Future Narrow Band Digital Terminal (FNBDT) project is started in the US to create a multiple media and interoperable voice secure communication protocol Baton 320-bit NSA secret symmetric crypto algorithm Firefly key exchange for EKMS (standardized as Photuris RFC2522) In 2003 it has been proposed for use within NATO, with the creation of IICWG interworking group In 2004 it has been renamed to Secure Communication Interoperability Protocol (SCIP) AES for symmetric encryption Extended key exchange with Enhanced Firefly Government and Military 83. SCIP: Tech sheet Application layer secure telephony protocol (L7) Works over any media (Radio, GSM, ATM, ISDN, SATCOM) Use MELPe codec (600-2400bit/s) or G.729D (5300bit), royalty free only for US Government and NATO Allow the implementation of custom proprietary symmetric and asymmetric encryption system while keeping interoperability Example multi-vendor interoperable Voice infrastructure Government and Military 84. NSA EKMS The Electronic Key Management System of NSA has been adopted as a standard for the handling of key distribution and authentication EKMS is based on Enhanced Firefly (Photuris RFC specification) Periodic Re-keying is required by policy (OTAR) EKMS Is tier-based hierarchy… do you remember x509v3 PKI? :-) Government and Military 85. SCIP: Where are the specification? It’s the typical not-so-open but standard technology Googling tell you something about what to look for: FNBDT-120 – Key Management Plan FNBDT-230 Cryptographic Specification FNBDT-220 Conditions for interoperability SCIP-231 AES Encryption But no official public document other than…. Check http://nc3a.info/MDS/FNBDT/FNBDT_NATO_BriefV9.ppt FNBDT Signaling schematics!!! Check http://www.dtic.mil/dticasd/sbir/sbir041/srch/sbir147.html FNBDT 1999 partial initial specification document!!!!! Government and Military 86. SCIP protocol stack view Government and Military 87. Some SCIP Manufacturer US - NSA, General Dynamic, L3 Communications UK – QinetiQ, DSTL DE – BSI, R&S IT – SELEX FR – EADS, SAGEM, THALES ES – GS, Technobi RO – Electromagnetica TR – TUBITAK, ASSELSAN NATO – NHQC3S, NC3A Government and Military 88. Public Safety European ETSI standard for an interoperable world 89. From analog scrambler…. First encrypted radio was using unsecure voice frequency inversion (scrambling) RSA and Diffie-Hellman was born trying to create syncronization methods from scramblers Scramblers cannot be secure as they don’t do encryption Often referred scrambler are digitizer (modem) that over the digital path make encryption Scrambler has been cracked in a lot of countries with simple PC software Frequency Hopping Radio transmission techniques (TRANSEC) has been added to modern radio security techniques to increase security at layer1 Public Safety 90. To TETRA (1) Designed as ETSI standard Terrestrial Trunked Radio (but France has it’s own TETRAPOL variant) Used in +35 nations (not only europe but also Russia, India, Brazil, Argentina, etc) Operate on 400mhz on a different infrastructure 0.5s call setup Provide IP packet transport over tetra Operate without a network with Direct Mode Operations Each device is able to works as a independent repeater Public Safety 91. To TETRA (2) Signaling is encrypted Voice and Data are encrypted Similar to GSM with Ki private secret residing on SIM or on Trusted Mobile device Support for mutual authentication with the network Support point-to-point and point-to-multipoint end-to-end encryption Release: 1994 Formation of Tetra consortium 1999 Tetra Release 1 2005 Tetra Release 2 (+AMR +CELP +Extended DMO) Public Safety 92. TETRA encryption algorithms Tetra Authentication Key Management Algorithm: TAA1 Algorithm for encryption (secret codes): TEA1: 1 st exportable Tetra algorithm (distributed by ETSI) TEA2: 1 s strong encryption for schengen countries (distributed by Dutch Police IT Organization) TEA3: 2 nd strong encryption for schengen countries (distributed by ETSI) TEA4: 2 nd exportable Tetra algorithm (distributed by ETSI) Support end-to-end encryption with IDEA, AES and custom algorithms http://www.tetramou.com/uploadedFiles/Files/Documents/Overviewofstandardcryptographicalgorithms.pdf http://www.tetramou.com/uploadedFiles/About_TETRA/TETRA%2520Security%2520pdf.pdf Public Safety 93. TETRA encryption configuration Clear (no air interface encryption) without End to End Encryption TETRA Encryption Algorithm 1 (TEA1) without End to End Encryption TETRA Encryption Algorithm 2 (TEA2) without End to End Encryption TETRA Encryption Algorithm 3 (TEA3) without End to End Encryption Clear (no air interface encryption) with End to End Encryption TETRA Encryption Algorithm 1 (TEA1) with End to End Encryption TETRA Encryption Algorithm 2 (TEA2) with End to End Encryption TETRA Encryption Algorithm 3 (TEA3) with End to End Encryption Public Safety 94. TETRA BOS digital radio (germany) Example implementation by BSI of the German TETRA network with smartcard security https://www.bsi-fuer-buerger.de/cae/servlet/contentblob/487530/publicationFile/27989/BSI_AnnualReport2005_pdf Public Safety 95. IETF VoIP security standards 96. VoIP basic IETF VoIP standard apply to internet and IP based communications SIP is used to transport signaling information RTP is used to carry media traffic (audio, video) Both usually works over UDP protocol SIP can works securely across a TLS secured channel IETF VoIP security standards 97. Signaling Encryption: SIP/TLS Provide a secured and network authenticated channel for signaling with TLSv1 (much like HTTPS) IETF VoIP security standards 98. Media encryption: SRTP SRTP describe how to encrypt and guarantee the integrity of RTP packets Encryption has been brought to IETF standard in March 2004 with SRTP (RFC3711) Several Key Exchange methods has been standardized SRTP support for symmetric encryption AES128 Counter mode AES128 f8-mode SRTP for integrity checking HMAC-SHA1 32 bit version 80 bit version Upcoming internet-draft fo AES-192 and AES-256 IETF VoIP security standards 99. Media encryption: SRTP IETF VoIP security standards 100. E2S Key exchange: SDES SDES is the only widely diffused and implemented key agreement method It’s transported over SIP channel protected with TLS IETF VoIP security standards