GitHub - fpietrosanti/Trojans-And-Rule-of-Law: Collection of Artifacts related to the Italian Bill proposal to regulate uses of Trojan by LEA (Law Enforcement Agencies) · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu

 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 fpietrosanti

 / 

 Trojans-And-Rule-of-Law 

 Public 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 0 

 Star
 6 

 Code 

 Issues 
 0 

 Pull requests 
 0 

 Actions 

 Projects 

 Security and quality 
 0 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Actions

 Projects

 Security and quality

 Insights

 master 

 Branches Tags 

 Go to file 

 Code Open more actions menu 

 Latest commit

 History
 39 Commits 
 39 Commits 

 Folders and files
 Name Name Last commit message 
 Last commit date 

 Access-Now-Comment-on-the-Trojan-Bill-Proposal.pdf 

 Access-Now-Comment-on-the-Trojan-Bill-Proposal.pdf 

 Article-on-Boing-Boing-Italy-unveils-a-legal-proposal-to-regulate-government-hacking-EN.pdf 

 Article-on-Boing-Boing-Italy-unveils-a-legal-proposal-to-regulate-government-hacking-EN.pdf 

 Bibliografia-Captatori-Informatici-2017-IT.pdf 

 Bibliografia-Captatori-Informatici-2017-IT.pdf 

 CNAME 

 CNAME 

 Conferenza-Stampa-Note-Proposta-di-Legge-IT.doc 

 Conferenza-Stampa-Note-Proposta-di-Legge-IT.doc 

 Conferenza-Stampa-Presentazione-Proposta-di-Legge-IT.pdf 

 Conferenza-Stampa-Presentazione-Proposta-di-Legge-IT.pdf 

 Disciplinare-Tecnico-Proposta-di-Legge-Captatori-IT.pdf 

 Disciplinare-Tecnico-Proposta-di-Legge-Captatori-IT.pdf 

 Motivazionie-Contenuti-del-Disciplinare-Tecnico-IT.pdf 

 Motivazionie-Contenuti-del-Disciplinare-Tecnico-IT.pdf 

 Proposta-di-Legge-Captatori-Informatici-IT.pdf 

 Proposta-di-Legge-Captatori-Informatici-IT.pdf 

 README.md 

 README.md 

 Summary-of-bill-proposal-on-trojan-EN.pdf 

 Summary-of-bill-proposal-on-trojan-EN.pdf 

 _config.yml 

 _config.yml 

 View all files 

 Repository files navigation

 README 

 More items 

 Trojans And Rule of Law

 The purpose of TrojansAndRuleOfLaw.org is to help fueling a debate to make Lawful Interceptions legal again. (i.e. adherent to the Rule of Law)

 In the good old world of POTS (plain old telephone systems) lawful telephone interception was clearly defined and processes and safeguards have been rather easily defined and implemented adhering to the rule of law, finding a way to ensure respect of fundamental rights and law enforcement possibilities.

 The digital age has blurred the boundaries between interception, search, tailing, etc.

 It is a fact that investigations have moved to the edges, onto citiziens' devices and that the attack surface has broadened from telephones to videogame consoles, to cars, to IoT devices, etc.

 Although activists cry foul and try to stop them, it is a fact that such investigations are being performed everywhere, often devoting limited attention to the rule of law.

 When elected in the italian parliament, Hon. Stefano Quintarelli tried to put forward a proposal to ensure adherence to the rule of law in this area.

 A former hacker, entrepreneur, computer security professor, he managed to form a board of advisors under the oversight of Pres. Luciano Violante, a former Speaker of the House (also former member of the legislative office of the Ministry of Justice, investigative magistrate, professor of legal institutions and penal procedure).

 The board was composed by three outstanding lawyers with specific experience, agreed with Pres. Violante, and with a significant reputation with legal institutions, consumer advocacy groups and industry.

 This board engaged in a number of iterations with relevant stakeholders representing all italian LEUs, major consumer and civil rights advocacy groups, authorities, former MPs and scholars (both from technical and legal academia).

 The bill proposed amendments to the Italian Penal code and the Code of penal procedure as detailed in this repository.

 Trojan Bill Regulation Proposal (Captatori Informatici)

 The Bill Proposal project has been made by an interdisciplinary team with a high numbers of volounteers and reviewers over around 2 years time. It didn't become a reality because the Italian Government collapsed before the Law was scheduled to be discussed by the Parliament.

 The core team that worked on the the bill proposal was composed as follow:

 Stefano Quintarelli , MP expert in IT and Cybersecurity

 Stefano Aterno , Criminal Lawyers expert in Hacking Cases

 Fabio Pietrosanti , Security and Digital Rights Expert

 Andrea Ghirardini , Security and Computer Forensic Expert

 This repository is made up for valuable juridical, human rights, forensics and technical interests on the topic internationally.

 No, this bill proposal doesn't have anything todo with export control or undisclosed vulnerabilities (0day).

 The Bill Proposal and its artifacts

 There are many artifacts around the trojan regulation bill proposal we've done in Italy in 2017, most in Italy, with some in English for a bigger audience.

 ITA:

 The Bill Proposal 

 The Technical Regulation of the Bill Proposal 

 Motivations on why a Technical Regulation is needed for the jurists

 Press Conference of the Civici and Innovatori parliamentary group preenting the Trojan Bill Proposal

 Talking notes for the Press conference

 ENG:

 Italy unveil a legal proposal to regulate hacking article on boingboing summarizing for an international audience the principles of the proposal Here the Online Article 

 Summary of the Bill Proposal 

 Third party opinions / review / interests

 CCC issued an expert information on the political groups on risks when using malware in prosecution that explicitly mention and include references to the safety principles of the trojan bill regulation proposal. For non German speaker, here Google Translated edition. The CCC position paper inlcude the principles of Italian trojan proposal from Page 16, specifically in addressing the issue of " Lack of technical verifiability and traceability ":

 "1." The source code must be stored and verifiable.

 "2." Every action must be documented completely, tamper-proof and verifiable.

 "3." The malware must not weaken the general security level of the device

 "4." The development and use of malware must be carried out by means of a central recording be understandable.

 "5." Independent certification of technical and data protection requirements be renewed regularly.

 "6." Encryption and integrity protection of the data collected.

 "7." Limitation of sovereign tasks to government agencies.

 EU Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE) published in 2017 Legal Frameworks for Hacking by Law Enforcement: Identification, Evaluation and Comparison of Practices that at Page 86 does a review of the bill proposal concluding that

 “The abovementioned conditions provide for many of the relevant and expected fundamental rights safeguards.“ 

 Access Now on 29 March 2017 publish a Policy Review of the Bill Proposal while condemning any government hacking, express a generally favourable opinion, with several improvements suggestions:

 "While Access Now does not condone government hacking activity [...] we believe it is of pivotal importance that if it is to be conducted, it is done within a robust legal framework."

 "We appreciate the provision within the proposal that seeks to establish strict use limitations for these authorities."

 "We strongly support the provisions in Civici e Innovatori’s proposal intended to ensure integrity, authenticity, and immutability of data and devices impacted by government hacking"

 "There are several other provisions in the proposal that we believe will help protect human rights. First, we are in favor of the provision that prohibits the use of contractors to employ hacking tools"

 "We are appreciative of Civici e Innovatori’s engagement on this important issue and incorporation of several human rights protections into the draft proposal."

 Privacy International has been interested in the review and consulting on the bill proposal, with talks with [Asaf Lubin](Asaf Lubin), with which we did also a set of written question and answers that has been used as informative contribution for their Submission to Human Rights Committee 119 at Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights where it's stated

 "The bill calls for amending Article 266 to reflect the Court’s judgment, as well as establish a more robust system for authorizing remote and covert hacking" 

 Eva Gasperin , Cybersecurity Director at EFF expressed on Twitter that this bill proposal "doesn't look bad" 

 Claudio Guarnieri made a poll on Twitter to his audience showing that 51% of respondant are against any kind of regulation

 Conferences

 Round table Government hacking in different national contexts organized by EDRi (European Digital Rights) at Privacy Camp 2018 

 Talk at SHA2017 Hacker Camp in the Netherland on Regulating Law Enforcement use of Trojans (SHA2017) by Fabio Pietrosanti and Andrea Ghirardini ( Here the Slides )

 Journalism Festival 7/04/2017 Panel on Lawful state hacking: necessary investigative upgrade or privacy nightmare? 

 License

 Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution - Share Alike 4.0 International license 

 About 
 Collection of Artifacts related to the Italian Bill proposal to regulate uses of Trojan by LEA (Law Enforcement Agencies)
 trojansandruleoflaw.org/ 
 Resources 
 Readme 
 Activity 
 Stars 
 6 stars 
 Watchers 
 4 watching 
 Forks 
 0 forks 
 Report repository 

 Releases 

 Packages 

 Contributors 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.