Tor Weekly News — April 23rd, 2014 | Tor Blog 

 Skip to main content

 The Tor Project

 Toggle navigation 

 Search 

 Search 

 Enter the terms you wish to search for.

 Main menu

 About Tor 

 Donate 

 Tor Weekly News — April 23rd, 2014 

 by harmony | April 22, 2014 

 Welcome to the sixteenth issue of Tor Weekly News in 2014, the weekly newsletter that covers what is happening in the Tor community.

 Cutting out relays running version 0.2.2.x

 Tor relays running the now ancient Tor 0.2.2.x are scheduled to be removed from the consensus . The change has already been merged in the master branch and will be out with the next Tor 0.2.5 alpha.

 Even if most relay operators have been warned, the change has not yet been widely announced. But as three directory authorities are already not voting for the deprecated versions, the downtime of two others while cleaning up after the OpenSSL “Heartbleed” issue was sufficient to get these relays removed from the consensus for a couple of days , as Roger Dingledine explained .

 Eventually relays running versions prior to 0.2.3.16-alpha might also be removed from the consensus. “I think 0.2.3.16-alpha’s fix of #6033 makes that one a plausible ’not below this one’ cutoff”, Roger writes in the relevant Trac entry .

 Relay operators should always make sure to run a recommended Tor version . The Tor Weather service can be used by relay operators to get email notifications if an outdated version is detected.

 Miscellaneous news

 Nathan Freitas announced the third (and probably final) release candidate for Orbot 13.0.6: “The big improvements in this build are a fix for the disconnected UI/activity (Tor is on, but UI shows off), and improvements to the transparent proxying iptables scripts”.

 The Tails developers put out two calls for testing: the first is for the first release candidate of Tails 1.0; while the second is for UEFI support, which “allows you to start Tails using a USB stick on recent hardware, and especially on Mac”. “Test wildly”, and report any bugs you find!

 Andrea Shepard sent a list of 1777 fingerprints for relays “which have ever turned up as potentially exposed by Heartbleed”. It appears that enough directory authority operators now reject relays known to be problematic : sssheep reported that the still-vulnerable section of the network was down to 0.01% of the consensus weight.

 Mick drew attention to the fact that in its current state, arm — the command-line relay status monitor — wrongly advises relay operators to run it with the same user as Tor, in order to access information about the relay’s connections. This is in fact a very bad idea, and a ticket is already open to address this issue. Lunar detailed the correct method of doing this, which is also explained in the ticket.

 On the tor-relays mailing list, David Stainton mentioned his Tor role for the Ansible automation tool . David hoped that “relay operators will find this useful for deploying and maintaining large numbers of Tor relays and bridges”. The documentation specifies that it currently works with Debian and Ubuntu systems, and contains several configuration examples.

 David Fifield continued his progress on meek , a pluggable transport “that routes your traffic through a third-party web service in a way that should be difficult to block”. David sent a call for wider testing of experimental Tor Browser builds and a call for reviews of the code . “There are a lot of components that make up the meek transport […] This is your chance to get in on the ground floor of a new transport!”

 Ximin Luo raised several points regarding how “indirect” pluggable transports like flashproxy or meek are currently handled by Tor. Whereas obfs3 or ScrambleSuit connect directly to the specified peer, transforming the data flow along the way, Ximin describes meek and flashproxy as providing “the metaphor of connecting to a global homogeneous service”. The latter being “incompatible with the metaphor of connecting to a specific endpoint”. Solutions on how to make the design, code, and configuration better are up for discussion.

 Nicolas Vigier submitted his status report for March .

 Philipp Winter relayed the call for papers for the 4th USENIX Workshop on Free and Open Communications on the Internet . The workshop will be held on August 18th, and should bring together the wider community of researchers and practitioners interested in Tor and other ways to study, detect, or circumvent censorship. Papers have to be submitted before May 13th.

 Fabio Pietrosanti wondered whether anyone had “ever tried to start Tor from a Python application using Ctypes”, making it possible to “sandbox the Python application using AppArmor without enabling any kind of execve() call”.

 Tor help desk roundup

 Many people email the Tor Help Desk from behind restrictive university firewalls that require them to connect using a proxy. Often these firewalls, Cyberoam and Fortiguard are two examples, use Deep Packet Inspection and block Tor traffic. Unfortunately Tor Browser users can’t use a proxy to connect to the internet and also use a pluggable transport. The Tor Browser team plans to include this capability in a future release .

 This issue of Tor Weekly News has been assembled by Lunar, harmony, Matt Pagan, and an anonymous contributor.

 Want to continue reading TWN? Please help us create this newsletter. We still need more volunteers to watch the Tor community and report important news. Please see the project page , write down your name and subscribe to the team mailing list if you want to get involved!

 Tags

 tor weekly news 

 Upcoming Events

 February 02, 2019 
 - February 03, 2019 

 FOSDEM (Brussels) 

 February 02, 2019 

 Tor Meetup (Berlin) 

 February 06, 2019 
 - February 08, 2019 

 IT Defense (Stuttgart) 

 March 23, 2019 
 - March 24, 2019 

 LibrePlanet (Boston) 

 March 24, 2019 
 - March 27, 2019 

 KNOW 2019 (Vegas) 

 See All Upcoming Events 

 Recent Updates

 Expect More From Tor in 2019 

 by steph | January 30, 2019 

 The Tor Project achieved a lot in the last year. We spent 2018 fighting for the fundamental human rights to privacy and freedom online and made our software more accessible than ever before.

 New Release: Tor Browser 8.5a7 

 by boklm | January 30, 2019 

 Tor Browser 8.5a7 is now available from the Tor Browser Project page and also from our 

 New Release: Tor Browser 8.0.5 

 by boklm | January 29, 2019 

 Tor Browser 8.0.5 is now available from the Tor Browser Project page and also from our 

 New Release: Tails 3.12 

 by tails | January 29, 2019 

 This release fixes many security vulnerabilities. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

 © 2019 The Tor Project

 Footer

 The Tor Project 

 RSS 

 Donate