Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense? How things really works! at Playhouse of privacy, innovations and some business stuff 

 author & blog 

 « O3B Networks: a new satellite broadband approach 
 About the voice encryption analysis (criteria, errors and different results) » 

 Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense? How things really works! 

 Published by naif January 29th, 2010 

 in Privacy , cyberwarfare , intelligence , interception and security . 
 0  Comments 

 You should know that Israel is a country where if a company need to develop encryption product they must be authorized by the government.

 The government don’t want that companies doing cryptography can do anything bad to them and what they can do of good for the government, so they have to first be authorized.

 Companies providing interception and encryptio n m ust apply to a license because Israel law on this is so restrictive to be similar to china law .

 That’s because those kind of technologies are considered fundamental for the intelligence and espionage capabilities of Israel country.

 To give some example of “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense” companies:

 GSM encryption products “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense” – Gold-lock 

 Interception of communication products “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense” – Verint 

 HF encrypted Radio “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense” – Kavit 

 Surveillance services and equipment “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense” – Multi Tier Solutions 

 For example how to apply for a “License by Israel Ministry of Defense” if you do encryption technologies in Israel?

 Be sure to be an israeli company, click here and fill the forms.

 Someone will contact you from encryption-control@mod.gov.il and will discuss with you whether to give you or not the license to sell.

 What does the department of defense will require from an israeli company in order to provide them the authorization to make and sell interception and encryption products?

 Well, what they want and what they really ask nobody knows.

 It’s a secret dealing of Israel Ministry of Defense with each “licensed” company.

 What we know for sure is that Verint, a “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense”, placed a backdoor to intercept companies and governments in the US and Netherland into the interception systems they was selling.

 Verint, a Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense Company, provided to Israel government eavesdropped communications of private and government users in the United States and in the Netherland .

 CIA officier reported that Israel Ministry of Defense was known to pay Verint a reimbursement of 50% of their costs in order to have from Verint espionage services trough their commercial activity on selling “backdoored” interception equipment to spy foreign users.

 It can be a legitimate doubt that the cooperation within the Israeli Ministry of Defense may be problematic for an Israeli company that want to sell interception and encryption product abroad.

 Those companies may be forced to make the interests of Israel Ministry of Defense and not the interests of the customers (like Verint scandal is a real-world example).

 So, how would a “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense” be a good things to promote?

 It represent the risk that the “Israel Ministry of Defense”, like is publicly known that it has already have done with Verint, will interfere with what the company do.

 It represent the risk that the “Israel Ministry of Defense” may reasonably provide “reimbursement” of costs paying the company and get what they would likely would like to get.

 So, what does really “Israel Ministry of Defense” want from Israel companies doing encryption and interception technologies?

 Should we ask ourself whether Israeli companies doing encryption and interception businesses are more interested to do business or to do “outsourced espionage services” for their always paying customer, the “Israel Ministry of Defense”.

 For sure, in the age of financial crisis, the Israel Ministry of Defense is a paying customer that does not have budget problem…

 Strict control, strict rules, strong government strategic and military cooperation.

 Be careful.

 If you want to read more about this matters, about how technologies from certain countries is usually polluted with their governments military and secret services strategies stay tuned as i am preparing a post about this .

 You will much better understand about that subjects on the “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense”.

 0 Responses to “Licensed by Israel Ministry of Defense? How things really works!”

 Feed for this Entry 

 No Comments 

 Leave a Reply

 Name 

 Mail (will not be published) 

 Website 

 XHTML: You can use these tags <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> : 
-->

 « O3B Networks: a new satellite broadband approach 
 About the voice encryption analysis (criteria, errors and different results) » 

 Search

 Post Meta

 Playhouse of privacy, innovations and some business stuff is powered by WordPress abc and Unwakeable 1.2.1 

 Prepared In: 0.506 sec. w/ 25 queries.

 RSS Entries and RSS Comments