La notte che bruciammo Chrome | Arturo Di Corinto 

 Arturo Di Corinto 

 Regionali Lazio 20 13 

 24/25 Febbraio 2013 

 Menu principale

 Vai al contenuto principale 

 Vai al contenuto secondario 

 < 

 programma 

 #openlazio 

 contatti 

 eventi 

 /> 

 indietro | Regionali2013 / La notte che bruciammo Chrome 

 La notte che bruciammo Chrome

venerdì 15 Febbraio

19:00 -03:00

Fusolab 2.0, Viale della Bella Villa 94, Roma - primo piano

 La notte che bruciammo Chrome 

Serata a sottoscrizione per  supporto legale HK06

 http://www.hackmeeting.org 

 h 19:00

// Aperitivo con Arturo Di Corinto

candidato pirata alla Regione Lazio con Sinistra Ecologia e Libertà

http://arturodicorinto.it

http://www.openlazio.it

h 20:30

 Dibattito su Civic Whistleblowing 

intervengono :

Claudio Agosti, Arturo Di Corinto, Arturo Filastò,  Fabio Pietrosanti

 // Presentazione Lazioleaks, una piattaforma web per la denuncia della corruzione nel Lazio

// Presentazione What’s CopyRiot?

// File Sharing Party con This Order DjSet

// Windows Erasing Night

// Certification corner del Partito Pirata

http://www.partito-pirata.it

 h 22:00

// NARTRARADIOROMA (concerto Creative Commons)

Il carico dei suoni sospesi + Palkosceniko al neon

https://www.facebook.com/events/146724585482717/

 h 00:00

// Dancing night con Torretta Stile DjSet e Luzy L

 Condividi su: 

 Iscriviti alla Newsletter 

 Segui Arturo su 

 arturodicorinto.it 

 programma 

 contatti 

 wiki 

 Wordpress.org é un software libero rilasciato con licenza GPL | 
 Un progetto di Lorenzo De Tomasi e Gianluca Bernardo [ Isotype ]

 X We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Leggi tutto Reject Accetto Settings 

 Privacy & Cookies Policy 

 Chiudi 

 Privacy Overview

 This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.

 Necessary 

 Necessary 

 Sempre abilitato 

 Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
 Cookie Durata Descrizione 
 connect.sid 1 hour This cookie is used for authentication and for secure log-in. It registers the log-in information. 
 viewed_cookie_policy 1 year The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin to store whether or not the user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. 

 Others 

 others 

 Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
 Cookie Durata Descrizione 
 nyt-a 1 year This cookie is set by the provider New York Times. This cookie is used for saving the user preferences. It is used in context with video and audio content. 
 nyt-gdpr 6 hours No description available. 
 nyt-purr 1 year No description available. 

 Advertisement 

 advertisement 

 Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
 Cookie Durata Descrizione 
 VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE 5 months 27 days A cookie set by YouTube to measure bandwidth that determines whether the user gets the new or old player interface. 
 YSC session YSC cookie is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos on Youtube pages. 
 yt-remote-connected-devices never YouTube sets this cookie to store the video preferences of the user using embedded YouTube video. 
 yt-remote-device-id never YouTube sets this cookie to store the video preferences of the user using embedded YouTube video. 
 yt.innertube::nextId never This cookie, set by YouTube, registers a unique ID to store data on what videos from YouTube the user has seen. 
 yt.innertube::requests never This cookie, set by YouTube, registers a unique ID to store data on what videos from YouTube the user has seen. 

 Analytics 

 analytics 

 Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
 Cookie Durata Descrizione 
 _ga 2 years The _ga cookie, installed by Google Analytics, calculates visitor, session and campaign data and also keeps track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognize unique visitors. 
 _ga_5VXPW099ZB 2 years This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. 
 CONSENT 2 years YouTube sets this cookie via embedded youtube-videos and registers anonymous statistical data. 

 Salva e accetta