Whistleblowing Rippling into New Corners | Threat Level | WIRED 

 WIRED 

 GEAR 

 Autopia 

 Microsoft Wants to Put the Windows Mobile Experience in Cars

 The Most Insane Truck Ever Built and the 4-Year-Old Who Commands It

 Mercedes Is Owning This Formula 1 Season. Here's Why

 Gadget Lab 

 Here's How to Bypass Those Infuriating Automated Phone Menus

 Sony's Turbocharged 4K Shooter Sucks in Crazy Amounts of Light

 Blue Bottle Coffee Buys Coding Talent for Next-Level Delivery

 Reviews 

 This Clever Radar Detector Is Like Siri for Dodging Cops

 Windows Slicker

 One Take Two

 SCIENCE 

 Science 

 The Real Medical Conditions Behind the Deformed Hands in Rodin's Sculptures

 Hole Found in Natural Protective Layer of Earth's Atmosphere

 How the U.S. Built the World's Most Ridiculously Accurate Atomic Clock

 Science Blogs 

 A Patient in Minnesota Has Lassa Hemorrhagic Fever. (Don't Panic.)

 Sneak Peek: What the White House is Thinking About Antibiotic Resistance

 Exploding Anvils With Incorrect Physics

 ENTERTAINMENT 

 Game|Life 

 Game|Life Podcast: Amazon Fire TV, Mario Kart 8, and More

 Mario Kart 8 on Wii U Isn't Anything New — That's Why We Like It

 Amazon Just Pushed Game Consoles One Step Closer to Death

 Playbook 

 The Soul of Surfing: Hand-Shaped Boards in a Factory-Built World

 New Camera System Helps Soccer Refs Make the Right Calls

 Wheeling and Dealing: The Latest Trends and Toys for the Biking Set

 Underwire 

 The 5 Comics You Have to Read This Month

 Rebel Toy Company Launches New Quest to Turn Princesses Into Engineers

 The Ladies of Bletchley Circle Are the Biggest Badasses on TV

 BUSINESS 

 Business 

 The Next Big Thing You Missed: Stanford Dropouts Build Excel Spreadsheet That Doesn't Totally Suck

 How Uber Plans to Beat Amazon With Bike Messengers

 Yahoo and Microsoft Plan to Make TV Shows — And It's Not a Terrible Idea

 Business Conference 

 Promotion

 In today's business world, disruption is a constant force that never lets up. At the annual WIRED Business Conference: Disruptive by Design, we celebrate the creative power of bold new ideas and the people that make them happen.

 See the event >

 Enterprise 

 Microsoft Is Suddenly a New Company. But Is It Too Late?

 Tech Time Warp of the Week: Watch the HAL 9000 Taunt Steve Jobs

 European Parliament Votes to Protect Net Neutrality, Kill Roaming Fees

 Innovation Insights 

 By the People, for the People: Crowdsourcing to Improve Government

 Thinking Pink (and Blue) Is Good. But Thinking ‘UX’ Is Better

 Four Indisputable Reasons You Should Learn (at Least Some) Code

 SECURITY 

 Danger Room 

 Darpa's Robots Could Soon Assemble Satellites in Space

 Tomorrow's Super-Soldiers Will Wear Night Vision Contact Lenses

 Dirigible Drones Will Watch the World From 13 Miles Up

 Threat Level 

 Barrett Brown Signs Plea Deal in Case Involving Stratfor Hack 

 Google Takes Wi-Fi Snooping Scandal to the Supreme Court

 Alleged Silk Road Founder's Lawyer Moves to Dismiss Charges Against His Client

 DESIGN 

 Design 

 900 Years of Tree Diagrams, the Most Important Data Viz Tool in History

 These Animal Sculptures Are 3-D Jigsaw Puzzles Made From Beach Trash

 Crazy Video Trick Makes You King of Your Own Tiny Planet

 Raw File 

 Inside the Isolated Catholic Town Built by the Founder of Domino's

 China's Assembly-Line Artists Put the Mass in Masterpieces

 Beautiful Scenes of Everyday Life in Palestine Go Far Beyond the Conflict

 OPINION 

 Opinion 

 This Is an Article About Good Comments on WIRED

 Forget the Quantified Self. We Need to Build the Quantified Us

 The Way You're Born Can Mess With the Microbes You Need to Survive

 MAGAZINE 

 Current Issue 

 Subscribe 

 Meet the Man Whose Body Is a Living Canvas for His Art

 If Game of Thrones Had Yelp, Here's How We'd Rate Westeros

 Mike Judge Skewers Silicon Valley With the Satire of Our Dreams

 Video 

 Insider 

 Subscribe

 RSS 

 Search 

 Threat Level 

 Chaos Computer Club 

 journalism 

 Follow Wired

 Twitter 

 Facebook 

 RSS 

 Whistleblowing Rippling into New Corners 

 By  John Borland   

 12.30.13  |  

 1:08 pm  |  

 Permalink 

 Share on Facebook 0

 Tweet 

 -->

 HAMBURG – Edward Snowden is on the run. Chelsea Manning is in prison. Julian Assange is in limbo, otherwise known as the Ecuadorian embassy in London

 Yet seen from the floor here at the Chaos Communication Congress (CCC) , the whistleblower-support community has never been healthier.

 The movement that broke into the public eye with WikiLeaks is now filtering into country after country at a smaller level, as local activist and media organizations work with technology providers to fine-tune the collection and solicitation of leaks to specific populations or subject areas.

 Much of this work is being facilitated by the Italian GlobaLeaks , a project of the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights. Started in 2011, inspired by the release of WikiLeaks data, the group aims to help with the release of information on a different scale than WikiLeaks can address.

 GlobaLeaks’ Fabio Pietrosanti and Claudio Agosti.

 “We saw that there needed to be a solution or software that would enable any organization to engage in whistleblower solicitation, even at the local level,” said Fabio Pietrosanti, one of the project’s founding members.

 GlobaLeaks, funded by U.S. Aid and the Open Technology Fund, provides a technology platform that enables other groups to create their own whistleblower platforms. Working over the Tor anonymity network where possible, it has created a system simple enough that even non-technically minded journalists and activists can use it with ease.

 It has currently been deployed around Europe, by independent journalism and activist groups in Serbia, investigative journalism organizations in Hungary and Italy, and an anti-Mafia group in Italy.

 A GlobaLeaks-powered whistleblowing site in Iceland, called Ljost, today released new documents on that country’s 2008 financial collapse.

 The largest implementation thus far is PubLeaks in the Netherlands, a foundation that counts 42 of the country’s biggest media organizations among its members. There, each organization pays €500 per year, and in return receives a special laptop designed to access the leak system.

 When accessing Publeaks from the web, whistleblowers can choose to send information to three of these media organizations. All participating organizations agree to honor embargo periods, enabling information to be examined without immediate publication pressure. The group has already had several high-profile leaks, including one that led to the resignation of a prominent parliamentarian.

 Pietrosanti said GlobaLeaks is currently talking with organizations in a number of other countries, including several media groups that want to replicate the successful Dutch model. However, activists are also examining topic-specific leaks sites for issues such as human rights, wildlife crimes, surveillance, food safety in the United States, and censorship.

 In essence, much of what GlobaLeaks is doing is reminiscent of the goals of OpenLeaks, the project created by former WikiLeaks member Daniel Domscheit-Berg and other WikiLeaks alumni. While that project has currently been shelved , Domscheit-Berg said he welcomed the other activity in the space.

 “As long as these are fundamentally secure, and take a reasonable approach, the more diversity there is, the better,” he said. “It’s the same as with the publishers, you don’t want to depend on just one organization.”

 Share on Facebook 0

 Tweet 

 -->

 Reddit 

 Digg 

 Stumble Upon 

 Email 

 Tags: Chaos Computer Club , journalism 

 Discuss | 

 Permalink 

 Subscribe to Wired Magazine

 Advertisement

 Wired 
 threat level 

 Editor 

 Kevin Poulsen 

 Senior Writers 

 David Kravets 

 Kim Zetter 

 Send us a tip 

 Services

 Quick Links: 
 Contact Us 
| 
 Login/Register 
 Logout 
| 
 Newsletter 
| 
 RSS Feeds 
| 
 WIRED Jobs 
| 
 WIRED Mobile 
| 
 FAQ 
| 
 Sitemap 

 Collapse 

 Previous Article

 Don't Want Your Laptop Tampered With? Just Add Glitter Nail Polish

 Next Article

 How to Send Estonian Vodka Through the Pneumatic Internet

 Sitemap | 

 FAQ | 

 Contact Us | 

 WIRED Staff | 

 Advertising | 

 Press Center | 

 Subscription Services | 

 Newsletter | 

 RSS Feeds 

 Condé Nast Web Sites: 

 Webmonkey |

 Reddit | 

 ArsTechnica |

 Details |

 Golf Digest |

 GQ |

 New Yorker 

 Subscribe to a magazine: 
 View All Titles 
 Allure 
 Architectural Digest 
 Bon Appétit 
 Brides 
 Condé Nast Traveler 
 Details 
 Glamour 
 Golf Digest 
 Golf World 
 GQ 
 Lucky 
 Self 
 Teen Vogue 
 The New Yorker 
 Vanity Fair 
 Vogue 
 W 
 WIRED 

 Condé Nast web sites: 
 Allure 
 Architectural Digest 
 ArsTechnica 
 Bon Appétit 
 Brides.com 
 Condé Nast Traveler 
 Condé Nast Portfolio 
 Concierge 
 Details 
 Epicurious 
 Glamour 
 Golf Digest 
 Golf World 
 GQ 
 Hotel Chatter 
 Jaunted 
 Lucky 
 Nutrition Data 
 Reddit 
 Self 
 Style.com 
 Teen Vogue 
 The New Yorker 
 Vanity Fair 
 Vogue 
 Webmonkey 
 W 

 International Sites: 
 Wired UK 
 Wired Italy 
 Wired Japan 

 WIRED.com © 2014 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this Site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective 01/02/2014) and Privacy Policy (effective 01/02/2014) . Your California Privacy Rights .

 The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast .

 Ad Choices