FOSDEM 2018 - Public money, public code, the Italian way 

 FOSDEM18 

 Home 

 About 

 News 

 Schedule 

 Volunteer 

 Practical 

 News 

 Sponsors 

 Contact 

 Brussels / 3 & 4 February 2018 

 schedule 

 FOSDEM 2018 
 /
 Schedule 
 /
 Events 
 /
 Developer rooms
 /
 Legal and Policy Issues 
 /
 Public money, public code, the Italian way

 Public money, public code, the Italian way

 Hacking Italian Administrations to get to the code (in a legal way)

 Track : Legal and Policy Issues devroom 

 Room : UA2.220 (Guillissen) 

 Day : Sunday 

 Start : 14:30 

 End : 14:55 

 FSFE has recently launched the campaign "Public Money, Public code”, which promotes legislation requiring that publicly financed software developed for the public sector is made publicly available under a Free and Open Source Software licence. However, under the Italian Digital Administration Code, we already have a provision (amended in 2016) which seems to have similar effects. We tried to use it as a legal hack to make available the source code of publicly financed whistleblowing software.

 The campaign "Public Money, Public code”, recently launched by the FSFE, aims at convincing the representatives to propose legislation requiring that publicly financed software developed for the public sector is made publicly available under a Free and Open Source Software licence. However, under the Italian Digital Administration Code (d.lgs 82/2005) we already have a provision (amended in 2016), in art. 69, which states that all public administrations have a duty to make available custom-made publicly financed software, together with the documentation, and to release it under an open licence, in free use, to other public administrations and other legal entities (with a few exceptions, regarding public security, national defense and the electoral process). We tried to use art. 69 as a legal hack to make available the source code of publicly financed whistleblowing software, from some municipalities and publicly controlled companies. The outcome has not been entirely satisfactory.

 The talk will be given by Giovanni Battista Gallus (fellow) and Fabio Pietrosanti (President) of the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights. The mission of the Hermes Center is to promote and develop in the society the awareness of and the attention to transparency and accountability, be they related to the society-at-large or not. Our goal is to increase the citizens’ involvement in the management of matters of public interest and to boost the active participation of workers and employees to the correct management of corporations and companies they work for.

 Giovanni Battista Gallus:
Lawyer, ISO27001 Lead Auditor, freesoftware advocate, Former President of @CircoloGT, Nexa Fellow. ITLaw, privacy, security & drones.

 Copyright, Criminal, Data Protection/Privacy and IT and New Technologies law are his main areas of expertise. In the last two years, he is devoting a significant part of his pratice to the legal aspects of UAVs (drones) After a cum laude degree in Law in Italy, he moves to Great Britain for the Master of Laws in Maritime Law e Information Technology Law at the University College London – UCL. Afterwhile, he earns a PhD. In 2009 he obtains the European Certificate on Cybercrime and Electronic Evidence (ECCE). He is ISO 27001:2005 Certified Lead Auditor (Information Security Management System). Member of the Bar of Cagliari since 1996, admitted to the Supreme Court since 2009, he is a member of the Department “Informatica Giuridica” at the Università Statale of Milan and he is a teacher at the Post-Graduate Course in Digital crime and Digital Forensics. Fellow of Nexa Center on Internet e Society and of the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights. Author of several publications on the above mentioned areas and speaker at the main national and international congresses, he sides his legal profession an intense teaching activity, mainly in the field of copyright, Free/Open Source Software, data protection, IT security and digital forensics. Former President of Circolo dei Giuristi Telematici, founded in 1998, first initiative to gather IT law experts in Italy.

 Fabio Pietrosanti:
Fabio Pietrosanti has been part of the hacking digital underground with the nickname “naif” since 1995, while he’s been a professional working in digital security since 1998. President and co-founder of the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights, he is active in many projects to create and spread the use of digital tools in support of freedom of expression and transparency.

 Member of Transparency International Italy, owner of Tor’s anonymity nodes, Tor2web anonymous publishing nodes, he is among the founders of the anonymous whistleblowing GlobaLeaks project, nowadays used by investigative journalists, citizen activists and the public administration for anti-corruption purposes. He is an expert in technological innovation in the field of whistleblowing, transparency, communication encryption and digital anonymity.

 As a veteran of the hacking and free software environment, he has participated to many community projects such as Sikurezza.org, s0ftpj, Winston Smith Project, Metro Olografix, among others. Professionally, he has worked as network security manager, senior security advisor, entrepreneur and CTO of a startup in mobile voice encryption technologies.

 Speakers

 Giovanni Battista Gallus 

 Fabio Pietrosanti (naif) 

 Attachments

 Public money, public code, the Italian way (slides) 

 Links

 Hermes Center Website 

 [Italian] Asking for the code to the Municipality of Venice 

 [Italian] Asking for the code to the Municipality of Naples 

 Article by Simone Aliprandi and Carlo Piana, FOSS in the Italian public administration: fundamental law principles (2013) 

 Professional website 

 Video recording (mp4) 

 Video recording (WebM/VP9) 

 Submit feedback 

 FOSDEM

 Home 

 News 

 About 

 Sponsors 

 Donate 

 FAQ 

 Archives 

 This year

 Schedule 

 Stands 

 Certification exams 

 Keysigning 

 Volunteer 

 Friday Beer Event 

 Fringe 

 Practical information

 Getting there 

 Accessibility 

 Accommodation 

 Code of Conduct 

 During the Event 

 Job Corner 

 Media and press

 Interviews 

 Video recordings 

 Social media 

 Promote 

 FOSDEM18 
 Brussels / 3 & 4 February 2018 

 This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Belgium Licence.

 To view a copy of this licence, visit
 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/be/deed.en 

 or send a letter to Creative Commons, 444 Castro Street, Suite 900, Mountain View, California, 94041, USA.