Take care of your sources – newsroom empowering with GlobaLeaks – – International Journalism Festival 

 --> 

 --> 

 home Proposals speakers programme Side Events supporters faq past editions ··· 

 home Proposals speakers programme Side Events supporters faq past editions ··· 

 0 

 No videos yet!

 Click on "Watch later" to put videos here

 home Proposals speakers programme Side Events supporters faq past editions 

 Previous 
 The Internet of Things is watching you 

 Next 
 The data security market: all you need to know 

 hackers' corner    
 | in Italian (without translation) 

 Take care of your sources - newsroom empowering with GlobaLeaks 

 11:30 - 13:00   saturday 18/04/2015 - Palazzo Sorbello

 EDIT EVENT --> 

 Claudio Agosti

 Good Technology Collective 

 Marco Calamari

 Punto Informatico

 Giovanni Battista Gallus

 partner Array Law

 Francesco Paolo Micozzi

 University of Perugia

 Giovanni Pellerano

 project lead GlobaLeaks

 Fabio Pietrosanti

 president Hermes Center

 Alessandro Rodolfi

 University of Milan

 During the Wired Next Festival 2014 - the event mostly remembered for the blitz of taxi drivers against Uber Italy - it was explained, in a few hours, how a newsroom can be equipped with a new editorial resource: a system of anonymous whistleblowing. On that occasion, the IRPI group, along with journalists of Wired, proposed the idea of ExpoLeaks. It was not a technology to be installed, but an editorial process to be scheduled.

 Following the workshop, an analysis of the risk and the information needed to solicit was made, a crowdfunding campaign was started, promotional materials and dedicated graphics were prepared. After three months, thanks to ExpoLeaks, it was discovered that the assignment of the ticketing service for Expo 2015 in Milan had not gone through a real public tender notice.

 To be visible to potential whistleblowers, to launch a successful initiative and to get the right information is a complex process. It consists of various activities, including discerning simple secrets from circumstantial reports and managing sources during the anonymous and confidential exchange of information, with the technologies promoted by Edward Snowden. These are the issues that will be discussed during the workshop.

 If you plan to participate because you are curious, if you already have an idea for a useful project or if you think that it could be the right tool for your job, your journalistic group or association, let us know that you will participate and share with us your idea by sending an email to [email protected] . We will discuss it during the workshop.

 INFO 
 International Journalism Festival

Perugia, Italy | 14-17 April 2027

XXI Edition | FREE ENTRY

 FOLLOW US 

 linkedin 

 twitter 

 instagram 

 youtube 

 telegram 

 Newsletter 
 Subscribe to our newsletter 

 Copyright © 2026 Il Filo di Arianna - contact - Privacy Policy - P.I. 02480770540